Version 2.1.6 released, 10/98.  [Includes libplot 1.6, interface age=1.]

plot: new `-s' option, which merges together all displayed pages. This is
	to assist people who are accustomed to concatenating Unix plot
	files together (GNU metafiles can also be concatenated together,
	but the resulting metafile does not merge pages).
libplot: PS driver now correctly updates list of used PS fonts when erase()
	is invoked.  This was causing ISO-Latin-1 fonts in multipage
	documents not to be reencoded correctly.
libplot: Fig driver now places each drawn object at its own depth level.
	This is because fig2dev seems not to use xfig's own conventions
	for layering objects within a single depth level.
libplot: Japanese page size "B5" now supported.  So the `--page-size'
	option to graph,plot,tek2plot,plotfont now supports "B5" too.
libplot: Fig driver now properly supports "dotdashed" line type, since
	it is supported in Fig 3.2 format.  So `graph -m 3 -T fig' now
	works as it should.
libplot: Fig driver now produces Fig 3.2 format, so xfig 3.2 is required to
	view and edit it.  This affects output obtained with `-T fig'.
plot.h: marker symbols and metafile op codes are now defined as enum's,
	rather than via #define's.
graph,plot,tek2plot,plotfont: `-T ai' option added, for Illustrator output.
libplot: Adobe Illustrator driver added, outputting either Illustrator
	file format version 3 or version 5 (latter is default).
plot.h: old workarounds for change in 2.1 from `endpoly' to `endpath'
	and from `fill' to `filltype' finally removed (they were
	conflicting with a Debian package).
libplot: in each Hershey font, stroke width increased by about 20%,
	to remove white (i.e. unfilled) space in some characters.
libplot: when space() is invoked, X Plotters no longer attempt 
	immediately to retrieve a font from the X server (they wait
	until fontname/fontsize/textangle is next invoked, or failing
	that, until alabel/labelwidth is).  This reduces the chance of
	failing to retrieve a too-small or too-large X font.
libplot: in metafiles, separate op codes for frotate, fscale, ftranslate
	operations now obsolete (they are mapped into fconcat, internally).
libplot: fixed bug in Metafile Plotter support for convenience operations
	frotate, fscale, franslate.
libplot: fixed inelegance in Metafile Plotter portable output (a couple of 
	op codes needed only for binary-format were being emitted).
libplot: HP-GL and PCL Plotters now emit more compact code for any path
	that contains more than a single circular arc (the HP-GL `AA'
	instruction, rather than a polygonal approximation, is now used).
libplot: new internal `path' structure now used (a linked list of elements).
libplot: invocations of space() on a Plotter, after the first mandatory
	invocation for each page, no longer affect the line width or font
	size in terms of user coordinates.  This is for consistency with
	fconcat() and for consistency with Postscript.  Postscript does not
	change user-frame line widths or user-frame font sizes when the
	affine map from user coordinates to device coordinates is updated.
libplot: No more bogus warnings issued by Metafile Plotters if they're
	asked to render a label in a non-builtin font, e.g. a non-PS X
	font.  (This removes some bogus warning messages from raw `graph'.)
graph/plot/tek2plot/plotfont and libplot: in code, exit(1) replaced by
	exit(EXIT_FAILURE) to improve portability beyond Unix.

Version 2.1.5 released, 8/98.  [Includes libplot 1.5, interface age=1.]

texinfo documentation: full explanation given of the 18 supported
	Hewlett-Packard vector fonts, also known as `stick fonts'.
libplot: escape sequences added for the 12 signs of the zodiac; they are
	recognized in labels whenever the current font is a Hershey font.
libplot: new escape sequences "\r^" and "\l^" added, for use in labels;
	they shift right and left by 1/12 em, respectively.
libplot: 3 missing Japanese Katakana added to the HersheyEUC font (they
	are the 3 that have no Hiragana counterpart).
graph,plot,tek2plot,plotfont: `-T pcl' option added, for PCL 5 output.
libplot: PCL 5 driver added; it essentially outputs HP-GL/2, with 
	a preceding control sequence to switch the printer or plotter 
	from PCL 5 mode to HP-GL/2 mode, and a following control sequence 
	to switch back.
plot: parsing bug fixed; files may now be listed on command line.
configure: options now include `--enable-ps-fonts-in-pcl', 
	`--enable-lj-fonts-in-ps', and `enable-lj-fonts-in-x'.  Previous
	option `--enable-lj-fonts' was split into final two.
libplot: HP-GL/2 driver now supports the 35 PS fonts.  So e.g. in principle
	`plotfont -Thpgl Helvetica > map.plt' will work, allowing a PS
	character map to be displayed on a PCL device.  But PS fonts are
	available only on high-end PCL devices, e.g., 4000-series
	LaserJets.
libplot: when drawing labels in any of the 43 ISO-Latin-1 PCL fonts,
	HP-GL/2 driver previously displayed five characters (-, `, ', ^, ~)
	incorrectly.  Final four of these were displayed as accents.
	Problem was traced to HP's idiosyncratic definition of ISO-Latin-1
	("ECMA-96 Latin-1").  Now fixed.

Version 2.1.4 released, 7/98.  [Includes libplot 1.4, interface age=1.]

libplot: HP-GL driver now supports 8 Stick fonts (device-resident
	vector fonts) when producing HP-GL/2 output, and 18 Stick fonts
	when producing output for an HP7550A plotter (HPGL_VERSION="1.5").
	Not yet documented because kerning is being worked on, but
	they show up when `--help-fonts' or `--list-fonts' is used.
libplot: HP-GL driver, if HPGL_VERSION is "1.5", will no longer attempt
	to use pen #0 as a white pen, when filling polygons that are
	meant to be filled with white.
graph, plot, tek2plot, plotfont: no more segmentation faults when using
	the `--help-fonts' or `--list-fonts' options.

Version 2.1.3 released, 7/98.  [Includes libplot 1.3, interface age=1.]

plotfont: new `--numbering-font-name' option.
libplot: color was not being updated (if necessary) before rendering labels 
	in HP-GL[/2] output. Now fixed.
libplot: default value for HPGL_PENS parameter/environment variable is now
	"1=black:2=red:3=green:4=yellow:5=blue:6=magenta:7=cyan" when
	HPGL_VERSION is "1.5", as well as when it is "2".
tests: validation tests may now be run even if the build directory is
	different from the source directory (thanks Thomas Walter).
tests: bug in test for HP-GL/2 output fixed (thanks Thomas Walter).

Version 2.1.2 released, 7/98.  [Includes libplot 1.2, interface age=1.]

libplot: any polyline with "disconnected" line type is now drawn as a set
	of filled circles, one centered on each defining point.  Circle
	diameter is chosen to be the nominal line width.
libplot: PS driver previously did not quite close large filled circles
	and ellipses, leading to an `inverse pie-wedge' effect.  Now fixed.
libplot: previously the HP-GL driver required that HPGL_VERSION be "1" 
	to produce paths, arcs, etc. that would be positioned correctly on
	generic HP-GL (as opposed to HP-GL/2) devices.  No longer
	absolutely necessary: HP-GL/2 line graphics produced by the driver
	should be positioned correctly even when erroneously sent to an
	HP-GL device.  Fonts do not work, however.
libplot: HP-GL driver now visibly displays zero-length line segments,
	if cap mode is `round' or `projecting'.
libplot: dot/dash spacing in the "dotted", "dotdashed", "shortdashed" and
	"longdashed" line types, as produced by the PS, Fig, HP-GL/2, and
	X11 drivers, now scales with line width.  This affects the lines
	produced by the `-m' option to `graph', when used with `-W'.
spline, double: now permit comment lines in ascii input files, like `graph'.
double: default is now to print all fields, i.e., `-f' option is not
	needed in order for the program to function.  Instructions on using
	`double' added to double.c, but not yet to texinfo documentation.
libplot: when producing HP-GL/2 output, can now use 8 builtin HP-GL/2
	vector typefaces (Arc as well as Stick; usual 4 variants for each).
libplot and utilities based on it: installation-time option
	"--enable-lj-fonts" allows use of PCL fonts when using `-T X' or
	`-T ps' options.  For this to be meaningful, installer must obtain
	the 45 PCL (i.e. LaserJet) fonts from Hewlett-Packard and install
	them.  They are available for free via the net (see instructions in
	./INSTALL.fonts).
libplot: small errors in positioning text strings, when producing PS
	output, now fixed.  The bug only appeared when rendering
	non-Courier text strings with nonzero angle of inclination.
libplot: X Windows names of several of the 35 supported PS fonts to agree
	with current conventions.  (Old names continue to work.)
	"avantgarde-medium-r-normal" is now "itc avant garde
	gothic-book-r-normal", "zapfchancery-medium-i-normal" is now 
	"itc zapf chancery-medium-i-normal", etc.
libplot: In HP-GL/2 driver code, fixed slight errors in positioning text
	strings, when rendered in the PCL and Stick fonts.  Errors were due
	to an unusual HP-GL/2 `leftward shift' label positioning convention
	dating back to pen plotter days.
texinfo documentation: Fixed incorrect statement that for `plot' and
	`tek2plot', the relative order of filenames and command-line
	options matters.
graph,plot,tek2plot,plotfont: --rotate option dropped, and ROTATE
	environment variable renamed to HPGL_ROTATE.  `Rotation' only
	occurs if `-T hpgl' is specified, and HP-GL[/2] output is produced.
	So by our coding standards, it doesn't deserve a command-line option.
libplot: ROTATE Plotter parameter, which affected only HPGL Plotters,
	renamed to HPGL_ROTATE.  (It doesn't provide a pure rotation; in
	HP-GL, `rotation' includes a coordinate shift as well.)
plotfont: new utility, displays either half of any recognized font.  Which
	fonts are recognized depends on the output device (set with -T
	option).  `plotfont -T X' will also display any X font specified by
	[truncated] XLFD name, e.g. "utopia-medium-r-normal".  By doing
	e.g. `--bitmap-size 300x450' you can scale fonts anisotropically.
libplot: HP-GL driver had two characters out of place in the upper half of
	the Stick font.  Fixed.
libplot: all substitutions of fonts (due to lack of availability) and
	colors (due to color names not being recognized) now yield a
	warning message.  However, only the first font warning message
	and the first color warning message of each sort (pen color,
	fill color, background color) is actually emitted.
graph,plot,tek2plot: new --list-fonts option.	
libplot: On X11R6 displays, X driver now rasterizes and retrieves only the
	characters in any scalable font that will actually be used in
	drawing a text string.  This _enormously_ speeds up the drawing of
	text strings and the animation of text.
libplot: default value of Plotter parameter HPGL_OPAQUE_MODE is now "yes"
	rather than "no", for consistency with libplot's imaging model.
	Some rather old HP-GL/2 devices (large pen plotters?) are reported to
	malfunction if asked to switch from transparent mode to opaque mode.
	Set the parameter to "no" for such devices.
configuration: now checks for -lXp if --with-motif is used (for Motif 2.x).
libplot: X driver now treats absurdly small numbers passed back from some
	X11R6 servers when requesting fonts rotated by 0 or 90 degrees
	(e.g., 4e-311) as zero.  Such numbers are too small to be
	manipulated arithmetically on DEC Alphas, and caused floating point
	exceptions in `graph -T X' when the `-Y' option was used.
all utilities: output of --help option now includes an email address
	for reporting bugs.
package: several small changes made to ensure it will compile under DOS
	with DJGPP (thanks Michel de Ruiter).
libplot: X Plotters now support hardware (i.e. server-supported) double
	buffering, if available.  Set USE_DOUBLE_BUFFERING to "fast" to
	obtain it.  Both DBE and MBX, of the standard X11 double buffering 
	extensions, are tried.
libplot: output of PS driver now fully conforms to the PS DSC (Document
	Structuring Conventions).  If output is only a single page of
	graphics, it is in EPS format.
libplot: Plotters that do not do output in real time (i.e. Fig, HP-GL, and
	PS Plotters) must now, in general, be deleted in order for an
	output file to be written.  That is, _in general_ each page is not
	emitted when closepl() is called.  In practice, pages are still
	emitted when closepl() is seen, for Fig and HP-GL Plotters.  But PS
	Plotters now do not emit anything until deletepl() is called.
libplot: fixed bugs dealing with Greek and mathematical symbol escapes in
	text strings, when the current font is a user-specified X Windows
	font (e.g. "utopia-medium-r-normal" or "vtsingle").  When the
	user-specified font is an ISO-Latin-1 font, the usual ISO-Latin-1
	escape sequences (e.g. "\sc" for the section symbol) now work also.
	This fixed problems with `graph' labels.
libplot: Fig Plotters now produce only a single page of output,
	irrespective of how many times openpl..closepl are invoked.  Only
	the first page of graphics is written to the file, since Fig format
	currently supports only a single page of graphics.
libplot: Tektronix driver now visibly displays zero-length line segments,
	if cap mode is `round' or `projecting'.
libplot: HersheyGothic-German font renamed HersheyGothicGerman, etc.
	(Former font names continue to work.)  Similarly,
	HersheySerif-Symbol and HersheySans-Symbol fonts renamed
	HersheySerifSymbol and HersheySansSymbol.  Oblique, Bold,
	BoldOblique variants added to former; Oblique variant added to
	latter.  Similarly, HersheyCyrillic-Oblique added.
	HersheySerifSymbol-Bold is based on Allen Hershey's Triplex Greek
	alphabet.  There are now 22 Hershey fonts in all.
libplot: Hershey glyph database updated.  Now incorporates Allen Hershey's
	final revisions, and his Triplex Greek alphabet.  That alphabet
	does not appear in most releases of the Hershey glyphs, since it
	was developed c. 1990.  See ./doc/h-fonts.doc, ./doc/h-glyphs.doc.

Version 2.1.1 released, 5/98.  [Includes libplot 1.1, interface age=1.]

libplot: to permit smooth animations, double buffering is now implemented
	for X and X Drawable Plotters.  Double buffering is turned on if a
	new device parameter, USE_DOUBLE_BUFFERING, is set to "yes" at
	Plotter creation time.  Successive frames of graphics are separated
	by invocations of erase().
libplot: X and X Drawable Plotters now maintain a local cache of X color
	cells, and no longer automatically allocate new one(s) for each
	plotted object.  This speeds up rendering, and avoids a memory leak
	in the X server.  If color cells in the standard colormap are
	exhausted, an X Plotter (but not an X Drawable Plotter) will switch
	to a private colormap.
libplot: new device driver parameters, BG_COLOR and XDRAWABLE_COLORMAP.
	Former allows background color of an X or X Drawable Plotter to
	be specified at creation time; latter adds support for
	non-default colormaps.
libplot: setting unrecognized parameters with parampl()	no longer yields
	a warning message.
libplot: bug in point() that affected X Drawable Plotters now fixed.
libplot: erase() now acts correctly on X and X Drawable Plotters: any
	path under construction is flushed out before erasure.
libplot: nearly all internal read-only tables now defined as `const', so
	that on	most systems the linker will place them in a sharable 
	read-only data section.
libplot: X driver now visibly displays zero-length line segments, if cap mode 
	is `round' or `projecting'.  This fixes a problem with `tek2plot -TX',
	since Tektronix files use zero-length lines as points.
tek2plot: now uses rounded cap mode for line segments obtained from vectors,
	to improve visibility of zero-length lines.  Rounded join mode 
	now used too, to smooth out curves.
texinfo documentation: now processed correctly by texi2html.

Version 2.1 released, 4/98.  [Includes libplot 1.0, interface age=1.]

graph:  may access the new Euro currency symbol by using the '\eu' escape 
	sequence.  This may be used when labelling the axes of graphs, etc.
	Accessible whenever the current font is a Postscript or PCL
	font.  Be sure to install the Postscript fonts accompanying the 
	plotutils distribution on your X server, if you want to see it.
	Whether or not you see the new symbol when you send a plot to
	a Postscript or a PCL printer, depends on whether or the printer
	has up-to-date firmware.  (E.g. HP LaserJet 5's don't.)
libplot: may access the new Euro symbol, when drawing text strings in
	a Postscript or PCL font, by using the '\eu' escape sequence.  
fonts: included Type1 Symbol font, from URW++, now includes the
	Euro glyph (the new European currency symbol).
libplot: a bug in handling of an empty plot, i.e. openpl() immediately
	followed by closepl(), now fixed.  (This situation caused garbage 
	output from several drivers.)
libplot: X driver no longer prints a warning message when substituting
	a Hershey font for an unavailable PS font.  (Substitution often
	occurs when the X server doesn't support anamorphically transformed
	fonts, e.g. if it's a pre-X11R6 server.)  Warning message was
	confusing `graph' end-users.
libplot: fixed a bug in X driver that was selecting fonts based on point
	size rather than pixel size, leading to different-sized labels
	on X displays of different resolution.  This affected 
	graph,plot,tek2plot.
libplot: fixed a sign error in x_erase.c that prevented erase() 
	from working on Sun's OpenWindows 3.0 X server, and other 
	early X11 displays; this affected graph,plot,tek2plot.
graph,plot,tek2plot: --bitmap-size option added, affecting output 
	on X displays only.
libplot: added BITMAPSIZE device driver parameter, which currently 
	affects only X Plotters (sets size of popped-up window).
plot: new --page-number option, cf. tek2plot.
graph,plot,tek2plot: on X11R6 systems, now linked with -lSM -lICE in
	the correct way (-lSM -lICE -lXext -lX11 follows -lXt on command
	line).  This previously caused problems on cygwin32 systems.
libplot: X Drawable Plotters now use parameters XDRAWABLE_DISPLAY etc.,
	in accordance with documentation, rather than X_DRAWABLE_DISPLAY etc.
tek2plot: when parsing multipage Tektronix files, now calls 
	openpl()..closepl() on each page.  So `tek2plot -TX' now yields
	multiple X windows, unless the --page-number option is used.
libplot: PS driver hacked so that output, when openpl..closepl is invoked
	more than once, is closer to conforming to the PS DSC (document
	structuring conventions).  You may modify the PS file so that it
	is fully conformant (remove extraneous %%EOF's, i.e., all but the
	final one, and correct the pagecount on the %%Pages line).
	When openpl..closepl is invoked only once, it is fully conformant.
graph,plot,tek2plot: --bg-color option added, for use on X displays only.
libplot: new bgcolor() and bgcolorname() functions added to API.
	They affect only X and X Drawable Plotters.  Libplot API version
	bumped to 1:0:1 (i.e. version 1.0, supporting 0.x interface also).
graph: new --pen-colors option, allowing the specification of the color
	of each of the five pens used for drawing colored plots.  The
	default choice is the usual "1=red:2=green:3=blue:4=magenta:5=cyan".
spline: some numerical instability problems fixed (tension parameter may
	now be taken arbitrarily close to zero without ill effects).
spline: support for multidimensional splines added (-d, -s, -A options)
spline: now tests for monotonicity of abscissa variable in each dataset
graph,spline,double: now test for NaN's (not-a-number's) when reading
	floating point numbers from an input file.  plot already did this.
plot:   When reading input files in plot(5) format, negative integers
	(i.e. negative integer coordinates) now parsed correctly.
plot: 	Multiple '\n' separator characters now ignored in
	portable GNU metafiles, and in input files in `-A' format too.
plot: -A option (replacing -I, which disappeared with 1.x) added and 
	documented.  It enables metafiles in the ascii version of plot(5)
	format (e.g., obtained with Unix plottoa(1)) to be plotted; also
	it will handle portable GNU metafiles generated by plotutils-1.x.

Version 2.0 released, 1/98.  [Includes libplot 0.0, interface age=0.]

Installation process now installs (by default in subdirectories of
	/usr/local/share) documentation files for ode, tek2plot, and libplot.
libplot: a new type of Plotter added.  An `X Drawable Plotter' will draw
	graphics to one or two drawables (e.g. a window and a pixmap).	
spline, tek2plot: "-" on command line now means standard input.
libplot: function declarations in plot.h header file now use `const char *'
	as appropriate.	 parampl() now takes a void * as value argument.
libplot: semantics of "disconnected" linetype clarified.  For ellipses,
	circles, and boxes it's the same as "solid".  For paths, it means
	the defining points are plotted, and nothing else (it's irrelevant
	whether they were joined by line segments or arcs).
libplot: invoking deletepl() on an XPlotter now sends a SIGKILL to the
	forked-off processes maintaining each of the X windows generated by a
	openpl()..closepl() pair, causing said X windows to vanish.
libplot: metafile driver now has access to metrics for Hershey, PS, and PCL
	fonts.  So it can compute string widths with the labelwidth() method.
libplot and plot: graphics metafile format now supports `open device' 
	and `close device' directives, as in Plan 9.
spline: -x option (--x-limits) replaced by -t (--t-limits), in preparation
	for a move to multidimensional splining.  --tension option moved
	accordingly from -t to -T.  Yes, this smacks of overloading.
libplot: box() now moves graphics cursor to midpoint of the box, not
	the second-specified vertex.
graph, spline, double: support for two additional binary input/output formats,
	namely single-precision floating point and integer.
libplot: new user-settable error handlers added as global variables
	(libplot_error and libplot_warning; former is fatal).
plotutils: package converted to use automake and libtool.
libplot: falabel() dropped from the API, and alabel() no longer returns
	a value related to the width of the label.  This is in preparation
	for a more object-oriented version of the library.  If you need
	to get the width of a label, use flabelwidth() or labelwidth().
libplot: undocumented dot() function dropped from the API.  Seems last
	to have been used in Unix libplot on a Bell Labs PDP-11 in the 
	mid-'70s, driving a Tektronix 611 ("Versitek") storage scope.
	(Thanks Lorinda Cherry <llc@research.att.com> for background info!)
graph,plot,tek2plot: --ascii-output option renamed --portable-output.
libplot: all 45 fonts resident in PCL 5 devices such as recent HP LaserJets 
	are now supported by the HP-GL/2 driver.  Traditional Stick and 
	Stick-Bold fonts supported too.
libplot: font size can now be set to zero without unexpected consequences.
libplot: improper affine transformations from user to device coordinates,
	i.e., those that involve a reflection, now fully supported.  Many
	bugs dealing with them, in all device drivers, were fixed.
libplot: fallback font for nonexistent or inaccessible X fonts is now a
	Hershey font.  (No more problems with old X servers not being able
	to retrieve rotated or sheared fonts!)  Similarly, retrieving an
	anamorphically transformed PS font from the xfig driver will now
	yield a Hershey font, since xfig does not support anamorphic
	transformations (only rotations).
graph,plot,tek2plot: display device type now specified with `-T' option.
libplot: support now added for multiple display devices.  The libplot
	family of libraries is merged into a single library.  The C binding
	supports multiple display devices through new functions newpl(),
	selectpl(), and deletepl().
libplot: code completely reconfigured, internally, in preparation for a C++
	binding.  Now quite object-oriented, including a form of dynamic
	binding.  `Plotter objects' introduced, each with private data and
	public methods.
libplot: all external variables now begin with an underscore, to
	avoid namespace collisions.
libplot, all versions: new havecap() function, which checks a version
	of libplot for capabilities (0/1/2=yes/no/maybe).  Replaces
	the undocumented external capability variables.
raw libplot: binary metafile format now uses ints rather than short ints
	to represent integers.  Plot filters changed to compensate.  Plot
	filters should still parse traditional plot(5) input format,
	however; if there are any problems, be sure to use the -h or -l 
	option, whichever is appropriate for your architecture.
plot: undocumented --guess-byte-order option dropped as obsolete.
graph: line width used in drawing marker symbols is now properly
	device-independent, and a fixed fraction of the marker size.
graph: --help-fonts option now yields nicely formatted 2-column lists of 
	fonts.
libplotps: BoundingBox computations now take line widths into account,
	cap styles and join styles too.
libplotps and graph-ps: line widths are no longer quantized, as seen by
	a Postscript interpreter (they continue to be quantized when the
	output file is edited with idraw, since idraw supports only line
	widths that are integer multiples of 1 point).
libplotX: setting join mode for polylines no longer core dumps.
libplot, all versions: "mitre" is now a synonym for "miter" 
	(i.e. as an argument to the joinmod() function).
libplotX (and graph-X etc.): previously, xplot.geometry resource needed
	to be set, to adjust window size.  Now, Xplot.geometry suffices,
	in agreement with documentation.
tek2plot: new -p option, to select frame in Tek file by number.
tek2plot: Tek parser completely rewritten (now uses essentially the same
	parse tables as the Tek emulator in xterm(1), developed by Edward Moy
	at Berkeley in the mid-'80s).  tek2plot documented.
graph: bug in plots with a user-specified reversed (min > max) axis fixed 
	(axis range on other axis no longer incorrectly set).
ode/specfun.c: gamma support now always works (no more compilation problems).
New libplot function, parampl(), for setting device-specific driver
	parameters.  Can also set them via environment variables 
	(parampl() wins).
All user-writable external variables removed from libplot (they were
	undocumented, in fact anything undocumented is subject to change).
libplottek: `graphics display' (a square) is now central 3/4 of Tek display
	rather than left 3/4.  This affects graph-tek and plot2tek.
tek2plot command-line parsing improved.  --pen-color initialization 
	and --help-fonts command-line options added.
graph: Partial workaround of problem with xfig 3.1: text strings
	containing a printable 8-bit (non-ascii) char, followed by a digit,
	are incorrectly displayed by xfig.  Fixed in xfig 3.2.
Output from libplotps now uses idraw `Circ' primitive instead of `Elli'
	to draw circles.
Plot filter options --{high|low}-byte-order renamed to 
	--{high|low}-byte-order-input.
	Also, -I option dropped as unnecessary (due to magic string).
	Continues to exist, but is now undocumented and flagged for deletion.
Each graphics metafile produced by raw libplot (or raw graph, or plot2plot)
	now begins with a magic string, currently "#PLOT" followed by the
	metafile format number.
libplotps: capmod() and joinmod() now take effect (non-default cap style
	and join style are not recognized by idraw, however).
graph:  --{high|low}-byte-order options now dropped as obsolete.
Plot filter parser overhauled.  plot filters should no longer crash on garbage 
	input (keep fingers crossed here).  If input file named on command
	line is nonexistent, plot filter no longer opens stdin instead.
Improved parsing of graph command-line options.  Bad syntax now recognized
	immediately, without data files or stdin being read.
libplothpgl: new libplot library, by default emitting HP-GL/2.
	plot2hpgl and graph-hpgl are linked with it.  Many options specified
	via environment variables (HP-GL and HP7550A format also supported).
In raw libplot, space2() produced wrong plot(5) op code.  Now fixed.
Bad problems with fill color in libplotps now fixed (quantization for idraw
	was interfering with fill color as seen by a PS interpreter).	
New convention on quantization of pen colors in versions of libplot which
	quantize them (libplothpgl unless HPGL_HAVE_LOGICAL_PENS is set and
	HPGL_VERSION is 2, libplotps when producing colors for idraw,
	libplottek when producing kermit output).  Non-white pen colors are
	no longer quantized to white, to avoid confusion.
In several versions of libplot, calling endpoly() on polylines with linemode 
	"disconnected" was incorrectly moving the graphics cursor.  Now fixed.
libplot: New `plotter-like' semantics for arc() and ellarc().  After drawing,
	position of graphics cursor now moves to endpoint of arc.  
libplot: arc() now draws an arc with sweep angle no greater than 180 degrees, 
	which may be clockwise as well as counterclockwise.  Also, ellarc() 
	now always draws a quarter-ellipse, never a three-quarter ellipse.
Remaining positioning problems in graph-fig and libplotfig fixed: 
	later-plotted objects now never placed `behind' previously 
	plotted ones.
libplotps and graph-ps: PS_ANY_LINE_WIDTH environment variable now supported.
	If set to "yes", no quantization of line widths; arbitrarily thin lines
	may be drawn, but support for editing the PS output with idraw is lost.
libplotps,libplotfig,libplothpgl: PAGESIZE environment variable now supported,
	can be any ISO or ANSI size such as "a4", "a3", "a2", "a1", "a0", 
	"letter" (i.e. "usletter" or "a" ), "legal" (i.e. "uslegal"),
	"ledger" (i.e. "usledger"), "tabloid" (i.e. "b"), "c", "d", or "e".
libplot: calling closepl() to end a plot, when there is one or more
	drawing states on the stack, no longer generates a warning message.
libplottek: exiting from kermit Tektronix emulation mode no longer
	incorrectly affects text color.
libplotX: in Motif, drag-and-drop via middle mouse button should now work.

Version 1.3 released, 9/97.

Major improvements to process of configuration and building (thanks
	to Nelson Beebe <beebe@math.utah.edu>, many new configs now work).
Validation test of plot2fig no longer fails on some systems due to
	innocuous causes (sign differences).  This does not include NeXT's,
	which format floating point numbers in a genuinely nonstandard way.
Output of libplotfig and graph-fig now indicates (via comment lines)
	which ellipse objects are circles.
Bugs in support for MS-DOS kermit's Tektronix emulation fixed: initial drawing
	color now is white, background black.  TERM="kermit", "kterm"
	now recognized.  Linemodes 3, 4 no longer incorrectly swapped.
Library linking (if Athena widgets used) is now -lXmu -lXt, not the reverse.
ode: improvements to arithemetic exception handling (error or warning message
	now always printed).
ode/specfun.c: `signgam' variable declared and used properly.
Problems with pointers to signed vs. unsigned chars, which gave problems
	on overly strict ANSI or pseudo-ANSI compilers, fixed.

Version 1.2 released, 9/97.

Problems with 8-bit characters (`8-bit uncleanliness') fixed in libplot.
	In `graph', they affected the drawing of axis labels containing 8-bit
	characters.
graph: buggy --reposition option fixed.
--with-motif configuration option added, for systems (e.g. HP/UX) with
	Motif widgets but not Athena widgets.
libplotps (and e.g. graph-ps) output is now conformant EPS, version 3.0.
	No more spare dictionary left on the PS stack, which interfered
	with inclusion as an EPS file and importing into xfig.
Escape sequences which allow access to Greek characters and mathematical
	symbols (e.g. "\*a", which means `alpha') now work in graph-X
	and in general in libplotX even if the current font is a non-builtin
	(user-specified) X font.
libplotX: switching among builtin PS fonts in a single label 
	was causing slightly incorrect estimates for the label width, 
	with not-so-good horizontal justification as a result (visible 
	e.g. in graph-X labels).  Fixed.
raw libplot: functions that take a string argument no longer try to
	write into the string.
graph: when labelling ticks along an axis with large or small numbers (printed 
	in exponent form, i.e. FOOx10^BAR), zero is now printed just
	as `0', not as 0.0x10^0.
graph: FOOx10^BAR form for tick labels now works even when current font
	is a symbol font.
graph: identical upper and lower limits on an axis no longer cause an
	error message and an abort. Instead each limit is displaced
	by 1 unit, with a warning message.
graph: -s option (--save-screen) now works.  (Meaningful only for
	graph-tek and raw graph.)
libplotfig: later-drawn objects, of whatever kind, now appear in front
	of (rather than behind) earlier-drawn objects.  This has
	implications for graph-fig (it fixes a bug previously mentioned in the
	PROBLEMS file).
graph: new --frame-color option (sets name of color of frame, and plotted
	curves too if -C option is not used)
New libplot functions: pencolorname(), fillcolorname(), colorname(),
	which search a database of color names (orig. from X11R6 rgb.txt).
New libplot function: pencolor().  color() now just calls it and fillcolor().
plot filters: bug in parsing of fmarkerrel() op code fixed.
plot filters (plot2X etc.) now abort instead of just printing a warning,
	if an unrecognized directive is seen in the input stream.
	This is to avoid confusing ascii-format input streams with
	binary-format input streams (which can cause X servers to crash).
Regression tests in ./test reworked; different options now used
	on `graph', in the tests.  Output is more visually pleasing.
ode-examples directory reworked; examples are documented and some
	are renamed.
ode arithmetic exception handling improved.
Separate ascii-format doc on ode (originally nroff) merged into texinfo
	doc, heavily edited.
In ./ode, gram.c, gram.tab.h and lex.c are no longer removed during
	a `make distclean'.  This is for the benefit
	of people who may not have bison or yacc.  If you want to
	re-make them, you should do a `make realclean'.  The
	info/plotutils.info documentation file and test/*.xout
	are similarly not removed except in a `make realclean'.
No more annoying flicker in graph-X after plot is drawn (libplotX
	no longer clears window before redrawing, when closepl() is called).
alloca.c now supplied in ./ode directory for machines that don't have alloca.
Repeated calls to openpl..closepl in libplotps were producing
	incorrect %%DocumentFonts lines in the PS output; now fixed.
Closed polylines (final vertex = initial vertex) drawn with libplotps 
	now close correctly, as seen by a PS interpreter.
Widths of lines drawn with libplotps, as displayed by idraw, now agree with 
	the widths seen by a PS interpreter such as Ghostscript.  If lines
	now look too thick, use the zero-linewidth (`-W 0') option.
Octagonal markers added (markers #30 and #31), as in UGS marker set.
Bug in special function code (used by ode), for machines that don't have
	them, now fixed (compilation of ode/specfun.c no longer bombs).
Hershey fonts now include Russian HersheyCyrillic, and HersheyEUC (for Japanese
	support; Hiragana, Katakana, and 603 Kanji are supported).
HersheyScript is now located in its own typeface; HersheySans-Oblique
	and HersheySans-BoldOblique created.
Ligature support added to certain Hershey fonts.
ISO-Latin-1 characters in Hershey fonts now include most accented
	characters.
Characters missing from Hershey fonts now print as an
	`undefined character' symbol (seven horizontal strokes).
Hershey astronomical and misc. symbols added.
Many miscellaneous cleanups to Hershey fonts 
	(inverted questionmark and exclamation point now supported, 
	for example; `asteriskmath' vertical height fixed, etc.).
plot.h now works with C++ as well as C

Version 1.1 released, 7/97.  See ONEWS for earlier changes.
